Good afternoon everyone,
welcome to the Quartz
Composer hands-on session.
Let's get started immediately.
We've got a lot of content to see today.
So first of all, what is Quartz Composer?
I assume that most of you are
actually familiarized by now about
this motion graphics technology,
especially since the demos yesterday
during the graphics and media keynote.
But let's just go over this
quick overview once again.
So Quartz Composer is an operating
system-level motion graphics technology,
and operating system
level is very important.
It's not like a side technology
or something like that.
It's sort of integrated into Tiger.
It was built around two key things.
OpenGL to get high performance
and real-time graphics.
And at the same time it was built
about this idea of integrating
all of our graphics technologies
through a common technology.
What you do with Quartz Composer is
create what we call Compositions.
Compositions basically
render visuals on screen.
Now, those Compositions are not
necessarily black boxes.
They actually can be interactive
with external user devices,
the basic ones being the
mouse or the keyboard.
But also some,
they can also communicate with
the host application because those
Compositions can have what we call input
parameters or produce output results
which are not necessarily visuals.
The way you create Compositions
in Tiger is by using our full
features graphical editor,
part of the developer tool.
We also try to make sure that
Composition would be easily supported
by various applications in Tiger.
And for that,
we have QuickTime compatibility
that is Tiger only,
and we'll look at that in details
later during this presentation.
And we also have a very easy to use
API so that you can integrate Quartz
Composer into your applications.
Pierre-Olivié Latour:
So as I said earlier,
Quartz Composer is really
integrating several technologies.
If you look at this simple graph here,
we have most of our graphics
technology from OpenGL and the
new one we introduced in Tiger,
Core Image, Core Video and such.
And also some technologies that
are not necessarily graphics
like simply JavaScript or
some basic spotlight queries.
And all those technologies are kind
of bridged through Quartz Composer.
And then the Quartz Composer system
is used by a variety of hosts.
Right now we have three hosts
and we look at those in detail
during the presentation.
There's going to be the
screen saver engine.
There's going to be QuickTime and
finally your applications.
So what's interesting here is that
from a developer point of view,
instead of having to learn all the
various APIs for all those technologies,
you can simply learn the Quartz
Composer graphical editing system.
And learn the little -- the easy to
use playback API and leverage all those
APIs and don't have to take care about
how they need to interact together,
how you connect them together and just
use that very easily in your application.
But I did actually found on the
internet a pretty nice description
of what Quartz Composer could be.
Now that said,
what are we going to learn today?
This hands-on session is
divided into four tutorials.
The first one will be creating
a parameterized Composition
using Quartz Composer.
So it's a little more than
your basic Composition.
It's one that has
actually input parameters.
Then we're going to look at where
and how we can use this Composition
straight out of the box in Tiger.
We're also going to look at using
the Playback API so that you can have
even better integration of Quartz
Composer inside your applications.
And we'll finish by building what
I called a kind of a complete Quartz
Composer application from scratch that
really takes advantage of the technology.
And hopefully after these four
tutorials you'll be able to add Quartz
Composer support to your applications
and create new applications with
compelling motion graphics visual.
It's kind of important
because some people outside,
some users are really waiting for you
to come up with those applications.
Okay.
Let's start with tutorial number one,
which is, as I said,
creating a parameterized Composition.
So the first thing we're going to do
is obviously launch Quartz Composer.
And for that you simply go
to the Developer folder and
then the Applications folder,
Graphics Tools folder,
and you will find the editing
application right there.
Double-click to launch.
You can click cancel
on the Assistant panel.
We're actually not going to use
the Assistant for this tutorial.
And let's close that window as well.
Okay.
Now in Quartz Composer you can
create a blank document simply
by doing New in the File menu.
So here we have the typical Quartz
Composer environment with the viewer
window over there that actually shows
what the Composition is rendering,
its output visuals in a way.
And here we have the editing window,
which is where you assemble the
various Quartz Composer components
that we actually call patches and
you connect them together and which
are gonna build a workflow that's
eventually gonna create visuals.
So let's get started
and create some visuals.
The first thing we're going to do
is simply paint the background,
I mean, with a gradient,
because right now there is absolutely
nothing rendered by the Composition.
As you can see,
it's indicated by the fact there is
a simple gray and white checkerboard.
If you need to find a given patch
to do some visual operations,
the easiest way is actually to use
that search field in the editor window.
So if I want to paint the
background with a gradient,
I can simply type the keyword gradient,
and then it's going to restrict
the list of patches to those
who are related to gradients.
The one we're going to use
is the renderer gradient.
[Transcript missing]
So let's pick up some kind of light blue.
And obviously,
to edit the middle and end color,
we could do as well and double
click on each of those circles.
But there is an easier way when you
want to edit multiple parameters.
You actually select the gradient patch,
and then you click on
the Expector button.
Now in the Inspector button,
you can obviously inspect the
various aspects of the patch
that is currently selected.
And you want to look at
the input parameters pane.
Here you can see all the
parameters of the patch at once.
So we're just going to
take the current color,
the current start color,
and drag and drop it on the
middle color and end color.
Now when I click on the middle color,
I can see the usual color picker
and I only have to change one
parameter which would be the
kind of luminosity of the color.
And this way I can create my gradient,
my blue gradient of three colors.
So we have our first step,
simply painting the background
with a blue gradient.
Now we're going to add
some animation to it.
An easy way to add animation
is to use a particle system.
So let's look in the list of
patches for particle system
and create an instance of it,
like for the gradient,
simply by drag and dropping
it in the workspace.
So a particle system is,
as the name implies,
a system of particles that evolve in time
according to very simple physics law,
depending on the speed of the particles,
their acceleration,
the gravity of the environment, and such.
Right now there are absolutely no images
that are displayed on the particles,
so you just see a bunch of white squares.
So we're going to load an image.
[Transcript missing]
And we can simply drag and drop
that image file into the workspace.
What it does is it actually creates on
the fly an image patch that contains,
that embeds the data
of that particle image.
Now what we want to do is to have
the image parameter of the particle
system be that image we just loaded.
So we just create a connection
by clicking on the output here
and connecting it to image.
Let's get the viewer in foreground.
Now we can set the parameters
of the viewer itself.
So just click on the particle system,
make sure it's selected.
And then display the
input parameters pane,
and there we can change the,
at the bottom of it,
we can change the blending
operation to set it to add,
which creates a nice saturation effect
because all the images are actually
being added on top of each other.
So you get this white saturation effect.
We're also gonna change one parameter,
which is the attraction
at the very bottom,
which is currently set to 0.5,
and we're gonna set it to zero.
So now we have a nice
kind of star field effect.
Next step is going to be to
add a simple logo to hide the
origin point of that star field.
So, same step.
You use the Apple logo.png
file that is in the materials
folder for this tutorial.
And we have that image in the workspace
and we want to display it in the viewer.
The simplest way to just display
an image into the viewing
area is to use a billboard.
So let's create an instance
of that billboard patch.
And the billboard is simply a 2D
quad that is always facing the
viewer that has an image on it.
So we configured the billboard
to use the image we just loaded.
And we need to set the blending
parameter of the billboard to over so
that we actually have some transparency.
And at the same time,
we can change the width
to be something like 0.5.
Sorry, that's better.
So we're slowly getting there
and our next step will be to
actually add some text there.
So how do you create, how do you display,
how do you create and display
text in Quartz Composer?
The way it actually works is by
creating an image that contains
the text you want to display.
For that we have this
image with string patch.
As the name implies,
you pass in some text as a string
and then it creates an image
that you can display afterwards.
I'm going to show you a second
method to display an image.
We've seen the billboard,
which is the simplest one,
always facing the viewer for
very basic 2D image display.
Another way to display an image
on screen is to use the Sprite.
So Sprite is like an advanced
version of the billboard,
except it's 3D.
You can position it in a 3D space
and send for the orientation.
So it has as well an image input that
I'm going to set to display that image.
And then I'm going to set the
blending to be over as well
so that we get transparency.
Now you will notice that the
image does not appear right.
I mean the quality is poor
and it appears distorted.
What's the reason?
Well, imagery string just creates an
image of a given dimensions.
Here, 152 pixels by 31 pixels.
And Sprite has two input parameters
called width and height that actually
display determines the area in which
the image is going to be displayed.
So if you want to have high quality,
you need to somehow interconnect
those two things so that the
display area of Sprite matches the
optimal display size of the image
we just created from the text.
Hopefully there are those two parameters
called display width and display height.
And we can just connect them to
the width and height of the sprite,
And now, we really have the text that is
displayed at its optimal size.
We need to make it bigger, though.
So if you look,
if you select the imagery string patch
and look in the input parameters pane,
you can set here the glyph size.
All the units in Quartz Composer,
I expressed all the dimensions in
Quartz Composer I expressed using
what we call Quartz Composer units.
And the Quartz Composer
coordinate system is with the
00 at the center of the viewer.
Then we have minus 1 on the left,
plus 1 on the right,
so that's the X axis which is horizontal.
And then we got the
Y axis which is vertical.
And the range of the Y axis actually
depends on your aspect ratio.
Here we have something
like a 4 by 3 aspect ratio.
So the maximum dimension on
the Y axis is going to be like
075 and the minimum minus 075.
And eventually we have the Z axis
that is coming towards the viewer.
It's kind of an
OpenGL referential system.
So anyway,
that means that the size of the
font we're using to generate
that text is expressed in units.
Here instead of 01,
I'm going to set it to 02.
Some parameters of the
patches are not animatable.
When you need to edit those,
you actually use the inspector
and the settings pane.
For the image-restoring patch,
we actually set up the font
to use in the settings pane.
So here we're going to change it to,
let's see,
Ariel Bold would be nice.
Obviously here we need to kind of clean
up the viewing area so that we don't have
the text on top of the logo and such.
It's fairly easy to do.
We just select the sprite patch
and change the Y parameter to,
let's see, minus zero two.
That should be enough.
And then we can set up the
Apple logo to be a little higher,
0.2.
Remember it's expressed in
units and the Y position as
well of the particle system,
0.2.
So let's save what we have for now.
Okay.
Now we're going to add some kind of
halo effect on the text itself and use
some core image filters to achieve that.
So you see the workspace here
is not really crowded yet,
but when we add patch going
along through the demo,
it's gonna become more and
more kind of complex to figure
out what exactly is happening.
So a good habit is to
create what we call macros.
Therefore you can partition your
workspace into sub functions in a way.
So we're gonna put the text into a macro.
So what you do is simply
select the two patches.
Then in the edit menu, you can cut them.
You can create, using the Create Macro
button in the toolbar,
a blank macro patch.
And the way we actually edit a macro
patch is simply by double-clicking on it.
What we see now in the workspace
is the inside of the Macropatch.
To know where you are in the workspace
when you navigate in the Composition,
we have this hierarchy browser here.
And you can see root Macropatch,
Macropatch.
And now what I can do is simply paste the
Oops, there we go.
Make sure the focus is
on the editor itself,
the editing area.
And here I can pass the two
patches that I just cut.
They're not visible in the
workspace because they got actually
pasted at their original position,
which was a little lower in the area.
So we said we want to create some
kind of hello effect on the text.
Simple way to do that is
simply to blur the text.
So let's look for what kind
of core image filters we have
to do blurring operations.
The basic one is the Gaussian Blur.
So let's take our image and send
it through the Gaussian Blur
and display the result.
So I'm just going to make a copy
of that sprite because it already
has all the parameters I want.
So you press the Option key
and you can drag and drop the
sprite and create a copy of it.
And we want it to display that image.
Same problem as earlier,
the width and height are
not necessarily correct.
The text doesn't really match correctly.
So we could just connect the
display width and display height to
the width and height input there.
But it's not going to work perfectly.
Why is that?
It's because if you look
at the original image,
here it has dimensions
of 300 pixels by 58,
approximately.
But after the blurring operation,
because the blur expands the image,
it's now a little bigger.
by around 100 pixels.
So the display width and height are
not going to be exactly accurate.
So how do you get those accurate values?
There's hopefully a tool for
that called Image Dimensions.
Let me organize the workspace.
Here we go.
So the image dimensions simply takes
an image and returns various dimensions
of that image expressed in Quartz
Composer units and its pixel as well,
in case you really need those.
And we can simply take the width
and height and connect those.
And now we have the blurred version
of the text that is displayed at
the appropriate size and that really
matches the text that is underneath.
The last step to create the real halo
effect is to change one setting in the
sprite parameter to have -- so that
the blending is add instead of over.
And now you have the saturation effect
as the blurred version of the text is
added on top of the non-blurred version.
Last step is going to be to
animate this hello effect.
What we would like to have is
the hello to kind of pulse.
And let's see,
how can we achieve a pulse effect?
Well, simply with the color.
The color on the sprite is a color
that actually multiplies the image.
If I click on the color here,
I can see that by changing its opacity,
I can create my pulse
effect that I'm looking for.
So how can I create that kind
of on the fly in the workspace?
What you need here is a
little patch called RGB Color,
which simply takes four
values for the RGB and alpha
components and outputs a color.
And now I can look at the alpha
component and create my blinking effect.
So what we need to do,
it's obvious by now,
is simply animate that alpha value.
You have plenty of ways to create
animations in Quartz Composer.
The one we're going to
use here is the LFO,
which stands for
low-frequency oscillator.
It simply generates a wave that
oscillates around a given value.
By default it's going to oscillate with
an amplitude of 0.5 around the 0.5 point.
Therefore it's going to
oscillate between 0 and 1,
which is what we want because
the alpha value here actually
expects something between 0 and 1.
So now I have my pulsing effect,
and I'm just going to slow it down
a little by setting the period to 2.
And we can save the results.
To go back to the root macro patch,
you just press the
Edit Parent button here,
or you can use the hierarchy browser
on the top of the editor to navigate.
So we have our Composition,
so basic Composition,
and we now want to turn it into
a parameterized Composition.
So that you've seen here,
we have probably about 10 patches,
each of those can have like
10 parameters or something,
so it's already 100 parameters.
But they're all about
those 100 parameters,
not all of them matters,
only a few of them are important.
So let's extract them and make them
input parameters of the Composition.
How do we do that?
Well,
let's start with the simplest one to do.
We have, typically in that Composition,
three parameters.
It's the Apple logo, the text,
and the overall color of the background.
The simplest one to turn into a parameter
of the Composition is the Apple logo.
So you actually control click on the
billboard to display the contextual menu,
and here you have what we
call the publishing system
for the inputs and outputs.
What we're going to do is take that
image input of the billboard and publish
it as a parameter of the upper level.
So I just do that,
I'm prompted for a name,
and I just keep the one there, image.
The connection is broken,
the input is now a dark circle
to indicate that it's published,
and the input becomes an
input of the upper level.
The upper level here is the Composition.
So if you go in the Viewer window
and expand the toolbar and then
click on the Parameters button,
you can see and edit, actually,
the parameters of the Composition itself.
And it now has a parameter called
Image that expects an image.
And I can just take an image,
drag and drop it there,
and retrieve my original result,
visual result.
Let's get rid of the one that is
embedded into the Composition.
Let's do the next one now.
It's going to be the text.
So we double click on the macro patch.
And the text we are
displaying is actually here.
It's the string input of ImageWithString.
So same operation,
Control-click on ImageWithString.
We're going to change the
name of that input to text.
Now we can go back to the parent level,
clicking on the
Edit Parent button in the toolbar.
And you will notice that the macro
patch now has a new input called text.
And we, it is not yet a parameter of the
Composition because we only publish
to the immediate upper level.
So to make it a parameter
of the Composition,
we need to publish it once again,
same operation, control click,
published inputs, and then text.
And now it has become a parameter here.
We can change it, as you can see.
A real parameter is a
parameter of the composition.
Our last parameter is going to
be the colors of the background.
Here we have something interesting
because this gradient is defined
by three colors and obviously
it wouldn't be practical to
publish those three parameters.
While what really matters is a single
color and then is from which we build
two other colors to use for the gradient.
We have a convenience tool
for that called a Splitter.
It's basically a one-in-one-out patch
that you can use to unify several inputs.
So we create one of those and
then in the settings panel,
because we know we're going to
transmit colors through that splitter,
we can force its type to be color,
which is going to be
more practical for later.
And now I can just connect
my color to my input,
to my start color of the gradient patch.
We need to build the middle
and the end color as variations
from that single color.
We have for that a modifier
called Color Transformation,
which allows you to take a
color and modify its hue,
saturation, and luminosity.
So we can just take the original color,
send it through the color transformation,
and create the middle color.
Now we'll create a copy of it with
the Option key and do a similar
operation for the end color.
We can go back to the
very original color,
set it to approximately the
same kind of blue we had,
something like this.
And then we can change the
middle color to be the same color
but with a luminosity of 0.85,
something like that.
And the end color to
have a luminosity of 0.5.
And now we're back to our gradient.
Last operation,
make that single color a parameters
of the composition and for that,
published input and rename it color.
So here we go,
we have our final composition with the
three parameters that actually matters.
We're gonna save that.
And let's go back to slides, please.
Things to remember.
What have we learned so far?
Well, Quartz Composer,
and that's very important,
uses units and not pixels.
When you position elements on screen.
There is one exception.
It's when you use core image filters.
The reason is that core image filters
actually process pixels inside the image.
So, here,
when you want to apply a given effect
at a given position inside the image,
you specify those
coordinates using pixels.
But everywhere else, it's units.
You can use the macros.
You've seen it's fairly simple
to organize the workspace and
make it less cluttered and easier
to understand when you give your
composition to someone else.
Publishing inputs and outputs allows you
to really build kind of sub-functions
inside a Composition using macros.
There is the splitter patch when you
need to control several inputs at once,
which is a very convenient tool.
And eventually we've seen how we can
create parameters of the Composition.
It's for the Composition.
It's all about publishing the
parameters at the root patch level,
parameters of the patch,
and they become parameters
of the Composition itself.
Now we can go to the second
step of our tutorial,
which is we created that Composition.
What can we do straight out of the
box in Tiger with this Composition?
Back to Demo Station, please.
I'm just going to close.
the composition windows.
Okay.
So the first thing we can do is simply
use that composition as a screen saver.
So if you go into the library folder
of your home directory and then to
the screen savers folder which is not
created by default so we have to create
it screen savers and I can just drag
and drop my QDZ file inside and now
when I go to the system preferences
in the screen saver pane I can see
my new screen saver called demo.
It works fine.
It's just a composition I just created.
What's interesting is that the
parameters of the Composition become
actually options of the screen saver.
So here we have our settings.
Okay, and I can change the image,
the color, everything I want.
And those values are actually
saved as preferences inside
- Inside the preference file
for the screen server system.
It's not changing the
Composition in any way.
The Composition is completely preserved.
Just the input parameters are changed.
The second thing I can do is
take that Composition file and
actually open it with QuickTime.
You can simply drag and drop
it on the QuickTime player.
So here we have our Composition playing.
And it's interesting to notice that
when I rescale the Composition here,
I mean, I should say the movie,
it's not the Composition that is
being rendered and then the result
is actually scaled by QuickTime.
The Composition is really
rendered at the final resolution.
So when I go full screen here,
I still have perfect quality text,
very sharp and accurate resolution.
If you can use it in QuickTime then,
I mean in a QuickTime player,
then you can use it abutely in
QuickTime-aware applications.
For example, iMovie.
So here I have a basic iMovie project,
iMovie HD project, 720p resolution,
and I can just take my Composition
file and drag and drop it
into this pen area of iMovie.
Now we have a specificity here to iMovie,
which is iMovie needs to convert
whatever assets you import that
are in a DV file into DV files.
So it's actually using QuickTime to
rasterize the Composition
on the fly as a DV file.
And here we go, you got an HD resolution
of the Composition.
Pierre-Olivier Latour is a great
example of how you can integrate
into your iMovie projects.
What I actually want to show you
is that iMovie file we have here,
if we look at the inside,
you will find in the media folder the
rasterized version of the Composition.
If we look at its size,
it's actually 30 megabytes approximately.
Now if we look at the
original Composition file,
it's 16 kilobytes.
Actually, it's even 14 kilobytes.
So that is one of the key
things about Quartz Composer,
is the fact you create Composition
that purely describes the visuals.
They're not rasterized versions,
and therefore they're very small,
and they can render
at various resolution.
Back to slides, please.
I would like to look a little
more at the QuickTime support for
Quartz Composer in Mac OS X Tiger.
First of all, it's Mac OS X Tiger.
That means no Windows, no Panther,
Jaguar, whatever.
We have a few limitations there so far.
No user events.
That means if you create a Composition
that uses the keyboard or the mouse,
those events are not going to be
transmitted to the Composition when
running in a QuickTime environment.
We also have a restriction
on Internet downloads.
If you have a Composition
that downloads an RSS feed,
for example,
it's not going to work inside
QuickTime for security reasons.
And eventually the
Composition -- the parameters,
sorry,
of the Composition are not editable
inside the QuickTime environment
in their user interface.
Technically, how does that work,
the whole thing of Quartz
Composer inside QuickTime?
The way it works is you take a Quartz
Composer file and you drag and drop it
on QuickTime and then it creates a movie
that wraps that Composition and stores
it into a Quartz Composer movie track,
which has the type QDZ.
It's a track that's going to render using
progressive frames and square pixels.
And important,
the alpha channel is completely valid,
which means if you create a Composition
that uses the alpha channel,
you can then composite the
results safely in QuickTime.
Because QuickTime,
when it uses Quartz Composer contents,
is kind of using OpenGL,
performance can be affected depending
on which API you use inside QuickTime.
So it's very important that
if you intend to have Quartz
Composer contents inside QuickTime,
you use the new QuickTime 7 APIs for the
visual context and the core video APIs.
If you are kind of a
higher level developer,
you simply have to use the Qt
Kit for Cocoa applications or the
HMI MovieView for Carbon applications.
And this will ensure optimal performance
of Quartz Composer contents rendering
inside a QuickTime environment.
But you can go even
further because we've seen,
let me explain that,
we've seen when you take a
Composition file and you actually
drag and drop in on QuickTime,
it has a default size and duration
as it opens in the viewer with
like 640 and 30 seconds duration,
which are the default.
This is necessary because QuickTime does
not really have a concept of infinite
size and no frame rate contents.
So we need to set up some defaults there.
If you need to change those defaults,
you can do that through the terminal,
but the easiest way is actually to do
it on a per Composition file basis.
When you are in Quartz Composer,
you can select the export
as QuickTime movie command
from the file menu,
and there you will be prompted to
enter a specific size and duration
for the QuickTime movie that will wrap
the Quartz Composer Composition file.
This is essential when you are actually
a QuickTime developer and you want
your users to be able to take the
Composition files and drag and drop
them on your application icon and use
the contents inside your application.
Problem is,
you might not be satisfied with 640, 480,
and 30 seconds.
You might want to have 1024 by
768 for five seconds or something.
The best way to do that is
actually to override the defaults
at your application level.
It's the same operation as if
you would do it on the terminal,
except you don't need to
go through the terminal.
It's just two lines of code
if you're Cocoa applications,
and it's also very simple if
you're a Carbon application.
For that, you use the NSUserDefaults or
the CFPreferences.
You can do part of that using
the QuickTime API as well.
That would be changing the
dimension of the movie using
setMovieMatrix or setMovieBox.
Once the movie has been created and it
contains that Quartz Composer contents.
Unfortunately,
there is no easy way to set
up the duration this way,
so that's why I recommend using the
NSUserDefaults or CFPreferences approach.
Now that we can import Quartz
Composer contents into QuickTime,
that opens kind of new doors.
For example,
here I have a Quartz Composer
Composition that does some live
video that is simply running as
a QuickTime movie inside Keynote.
And we have a bunch of core image
filters that are applied in real time to
create that effect and create the halo,
this kind of interlaced
green overall thing.
You can see the audio input and
the spectrum that is displayed
at the very top of that movie.
And that's a movie that is
ridiculously small as well.
That's kind of a far
stretch for the technology,
but it just shows that it opens
brand new door going through
QuickTime and Quartz Composer.
And that excites some people.
What did we learn through that tutorial?
Quartz Composer,
obvious use of the Composition
files immediate use.
Just run and drop that in the
screen server folder and off you go.
We also have native QuickTime support for
Quartz Composer Composition inside Tiger.
It's the best way,
the simplest way to add motion graphics
to existing QuickTime application,
because once again,
the Composition files are
gonna be resolution-independent
and frame-rate-independent.
No more HD, SD, PAL, NTSC,
all those things for the same assets.
If you can create the asset
using Quartz Composer,
you will have a small file that you
can just put in your application
resources folder and that's it.
So if you're a QuickTime developer,
make sure you allow your users to
select .qdz files and make sure you use
the QuickTime 7 APIs whenever possible
to ensure best possible performances.
We're now gonna start
tutorial number three.
And we're going to see how we
can use the Quartz Composer
Compositions inside our applications.
As a simple application,
typical application,
I decided to use TextEdit.
whose source code is available inside
the developer folder on your hard drive
and then it's examples and app kit.
It's there.
So let's just open the
project in its code.
What we would like to do with
Text-Setit is add some Quartz
Composer contents to it.
I'm gonna do something fairly simple
that really demonstrate what you can
do is replace the current About box
in Quartz Composer by a new one that
displays some motion graphics instead of
the simple boring one with the copyright,
and that's it.
First thing we need to do is edit,
obviously,
the interface file of TextEdit.
The one that we're
interested in is edit.neb.
So now we can look at
it in Interface Builder.
And before we start working with Quartz
Composer inside Interface Builder,
there is something you need
to do once and for all.
It's to go into the Preferences
of Interface Builder,
then go to the Palettes tab,
then click Add, and go to Developer,
Extras, Palettes, and Quartz Composer.
This will load the Quartz Composer
palette inside Interface Builder
so that you can use the QC view
and the QC patch controller,
which are the two Quartz
Composer elements.
So let's create that new About box.
For that we just need a window.
That's it.
In that window,
we're going to put from the
Quartz Composer palette a QC view.
QC view is the basic way when you
need to render some Quartz Composer
contents into a Cocoa application.
It's a subclass of NSView that
takes care of everything.
So we just resize it appropriately,
then we can set up its parameter.
And for that,
we need the Interface Builder
Inspector from the Tools menu.
And here in the
attributes of the QC view,
we can specify which
Composition should be rendered.
So we just click on the Load button
and select the one we created.
Now the last step regarding the
modification of the Nib file is
to make sure that when you click
If you want to create a new
window for the About Texted It,
it displays that new window instead
of the standard About Panel.
You select About Texted
It in the menu bar,
and then in the Connections
panel of the Inspector,
Target Action Subpanel,
we can see that it's currently connected
to Order Front Standard About Panel.
To break that connection,
create a new one.
For that,
you Control-click on About Texted It and
drag a new connection to the panel
and select Make Key and Order Front.
What we just did is modify the Nib file
so that when you select About Texted It,
it sends the message Make Key and
Order Front to that panel.
So we can save the modified .need
file and just run text to it.
So here we're getting an error.
It basically says that it's not
able to find the QC view class
when unarchiving the Nib file.
It's a common error.
The reason is it's missing the framework,
the Quartz Composer framework.
We need to add it to the project when
you use Quartz Composer contents.
For that, we're going to go to the
external frameworks folder
here and then select project,
add to project.
And the Quartz Composer framework
is actually part of an umbrella
framework called Quartz Framework.
And it has all the framework
in system library frameworks
and then Quartz Framework.
And we add it.
I think I need to do a clean build.
Okay, and I should be able to
run the build application.
Now I went and select About Text Edit.
I do have my brand new
Motion Graphics fantastic About Panel.
We can do more.
Remember that Composition,
the one we created,
is a parameterized Composition.
It has three parameters: the color,
the text, and the image.
So let's set those parameters
from the application.
We're simply going to modify two files,
controller.h and controller.m,
which defines, as the name implies,
the controller for that application.
And we're going to communicate with the
QC view from inside the application.
So first thing is to add an
outlet member to that interface,
to the interface of the controller class
that actually points to the QC view.
Oops.
And don't forget to include
the Quartz framework as well.
Okay, we can save the results.
Go back in IAB and take that controller,
that modified controller, that edge file,
and drag and drop it in
the area of the Nib file.
And then we click on Merge.
That basically updates the definition of
the controller class inside the Nib file.
And that means I can now control click
on the controller and create a connection
to the QC view inside my panel.
- And save the result.
Now back in my hosting application,
I have this QC view member of my
controller class that points to the
QC view inside the about window.
And a good place to talk
to the QC view is the,
let's see,
application did finish launching.
It's perfect, just as a setup time.
So here I can take my QC view.
and set the parameters
of the Composition.
The methods are fairly simple.
Let's see, set value for input key
is the one you want.
Let's see, the first one we're going
to set is the text input,
the text input parameter
of the Composition,
and we're going to give it the
value of the current username,
let's say.
should be full username, here we go.
Then we're also gonna set the
background color to something different.
So let's see, any color,
red color would be fine,
some kind of red.
And we'll finish by changing the image
displayed by the about box to use,
well the best here is to use
the icon of the application.
And there is a method to retrieve
it called application something.
Here we go, application icon image.
Okay.
And now we can build and run.
Here we go.
So that was fairly simple.
Back to the slides, please.
Let's have a deeper look at
the QCview API for a minute.
We've seen that if you
want to set parameters,
input parameters of the Composition,
it's simply a matter of calling
setValueForInputKey where you
pass the key that identifies
uniquely that input parameter.
If the Composition were to produce
some results that wouldn't be
visuals and output some values,
you would retrieve those simply
by calling valueForOutputKey.
And eventually,
I actually forget to mention that
is when you go into Interface
Builder and you set up the QCview
to render a given Composition file,
the Composition file is actually
saved inside the Nib file.
You don't need to move
the .qdz file around.
Now, in some cases, you want to load that
Composition file dynamically.
It's also quite easy to do.
It's two lines of code.
Just calling the method
loadCompositionFromFile on the QCview.
When you call set value for input
key or value for output key,
what is the correspondence between
the type of values that are
actually moved around in Quartz
Composer and the app kit values?
Well, here you have the table and
it's fairly straightforward.
You've seen for color
input in Quartz Composer,
you can pass an NSColor.
For a string input in Quartz Composer,
you just pass anything pretty much,
an NSString or anything.
For an image, you can pass an NSImage,
a Core Graphics Image,
a Core Image Image as well,
or even Core Video Image buffers.
It's really flexible.
- Things to remember, that's pretty sad.
Now things to really remember,
we have Quartz Composer,
which runs only on Quartz
Extreme configurations.
Tiger does support a few,
there aren't that many,
but a few machines that are
not Quartz Extreme compatible.
So if you intend to
run Quartz Composer on,
add some Quartz Composer contents
to your application and have your
application run on those machines,
you need to check for the
support of Quartz Extreme.
This is an easy way to do it,
just one method, part of Core Graphics,
which is written true if basically Quartz
Extreme is available on that machine.
We've also seen how simple it was
to communicate data from the hosting
application to the Composition.
So that means that when you create a
Composition and you're stuck because
you don't know Quartz Composer
enough yet and you're not sure
how to create the data the way you
want or process it the way you want,
try to simply take that out
of the Composition and put it
in the hosting application.
You do that processing
using C code or Objective-C,
whatever you prefer,
and then simply pass the
result to Quartz Composer.
Something quite important as well,
it's the fact that when you call
setValueForInputKey or valueForOutputKey,
as the name of those methods imply,
you're actually identifying the
inputs and outputs by the keys,
which is not necessarily the name.
The name can be localized.
So an input, if for example,
you create -- you publish an input in
Quartz Composer and you give it the name,
My, and space color,
this is not going to be the actual key.
Because there are some restrictions
of the kind of characters that
can be used and everything.
So the real name is likely
going to be My_color.
To know what is actually
the key for an input port or
output port and not its name,
you can use the tooltips
for that in the editor.
You just hover the mouse and you
will see in a tooltip the real key.
And the common pitfalls here
when you're using Quartz
Composer in your applications,
don't forget to add the Quartz
framework in your Xcode project
and include the header as well.
We can now move on to the
last tutorial of this session.
You're not expected to follow that
tutorial and doing it as I'm gonna do
it because it's a fairly big thing.
And we're actually gonna
look at the overview.
The idea is to build an application
from scratch that really leverages
the Quartz Composer power.
And a nice example with that would be to
build our own kind of TV channel system.
So let's look at that.
In Quartz Composer Editor,
we're obviously going to start
with a blank composition.
Now, you know those TV channels,
news channels,
they all have something that immediately
would make ours look professional.
It's that crawler at the bottom
that just goes very fast and
displays tons of information that
nobody can really read anyway.
So let's exactly reproduce that
so that we can have something
that looks professional.
We need some data first,
some data to display.
In Quartz Composer you have RSS support,
which means you can give the
URL of an RSS feed and it's
going to download it for you,
process it, parse it,
and give you some data you can display.
Okay, let me organize my windows.
This is the patch that downloads
the given RSS feed and processes it.
We need to extract the
information we want to display
and then display it on screen.
So I'm going to do those few steps and
then explain to you exactly how it goes.
- There we go.
Then we're gonna have some
text we need to display.
So as usual, we use image with string
in combination with,
let's say, a billboard.
That would be fine.
So how does that little pipeline work?
At the start of the pipe,
we have the RSS feed patch.
It downloads the RSS and parses it,
as I said.
It outputs on its article list
output a structure actually
describing the feed contents.
This structure is itself
made of substructure.
We have one substructure per article.
The way you manipulate structures
in Quartz Composer is by using a few
patches like StructureIndexMember
and StructureKeyMember.
They allow you to simply retrieve
an element in a structure using its
index or using its identifying key.
Pierre-Olivié Latour Pierre-Olivié Latour
Then we can create an image that contains
that title and eventually display that
image on screen using the billboard.
It's a fairly straightforward process,
as you've seen.
We're just going to fix the,
well actually no,
let's not fix the transparency.
Displaying one news is one scene.
What we want to do here is display
all the news and have them scroll.
We obviously need to have
that index change with time.
There are plenty of ways to do that.
I'm going to do it using actually the
current time in the system that you can
retrieve this patch time and then doing
a few mathematical operations on it.
The idea is I take the current time,
Then I can divide that value,
for example,
by five so that it goes -- the
current time goes way slower.
- And use that as the index.
Now that may not be enough because the
index here has to be in a given range.
If you try to,
here the current value is like 45,
but there are no items at index 45.
So we need to know the number
of items in a structure.
You're right, thanks.
Here we go.
And then our last operation here
is to actually take that value
and make sure it doesn't go above
the number of elements in the,
the number of articles.
So let's just do a modulo.
So now we have our display system that
displays an item from the RSS feed
that changes every five seconds.
There is one last thing to do here.
It's when you convert a floating
point value to an integral
value in Quartz Composer,
it runs to the closest value.
So when you have, for example, here 7.2,
it's gonna run to seven,
and when you have 7.6,
it's gonna run to eight.
In our case, so that we know exactly
when the item changes,
we just wanna make sure we always round,
we do the rounding ourself and
always take the floor value.
Okay, last step is to make that
text scroll on the window.
It's fairly simple to do.
We're going to need to change
the Y position with the time.
The X position, sorry.
When we need to have a value go
from a given value to another value,
there is interpolation patch.
We just specified a start value here,
let's say 2,
so that we start on the far right
of the viewer and we end on -2,
which is the far left,
and a duration which has to
match the one we defined earlier,
which is 5 seconds.
And we want it to loop, that's fine.
So now I have my kind of
RSS scrolling crawler.
After a few more steps of iterations,
we will end up with
the final RSS crawler,
which kind of looks like this.
Whoops, let me...
Constraint-Aspect Ratio.
Here we go.
Which will look like this.
With a nice shadow, a background,
and everything.
So we're going to start
directly from this one and go
on with building our prototype.
So I create a blank document
and I just load my RSS patch
that I created previously.
And it actually has an image
input so that I can specify a logo
to put between the news titles.
That's one part of the contents.
Now we need to really build the rest,
like the background, the weatherman,
and everything.
I like gradients, so we're going to use a
gradient for our background.
Some kind of usual blue gradient.
Pierre-Olivié Latour: Okay.
Here we have something interesting.
We don't see the crawler anymore.
It's simply due to the fact the gradient
is rendered after the crawler was drawn.
How do you change the rendering
order of items in Quartz Composer?
Well, you use the contextual menu on
a patch and then you will have a
rendering layer submenu where you
can select the rendering layer.
So here we changed it to be one.
Let's create a title bar at
the top of our TV system.
If you need to draw some
kind of colored shape,
which is a square shape,
Sprite is perfect for that.
We can use it to display
some kind of orange shape.
We need to change the width to
be two so that it's full width,
and the height could be zero,
one should be enough.
Then we can simply position it like this.
We need to add, obviously,
the logo for our TV channel.
Here we go.
Display it using the billboard
as we've seen earlier.
Simplest way to display a 2D image.
And then we need some blending.
Change the size to, let's see, whoops,
that's a little small.
Something like that.
And then position it
at the correct place.
Okay, we need the name of our TV,
so let's create an image
that contains some text and
display it using a billboard.
So, same step as we've seen earlier.
Combination of billboard
and image with string.
Except we want it to be a
little more on the right,
like this.
Okay, it's looking pretty good.
I'm just going to move things on the
workspace so that it's easier to follow.
Now it's time to add our weatherman.
Okay.
So I got an image here I'm
going to use and display it
using the billboard as well.
Make that a little smaller,
add the transparency as usual,
and position it.
We need to fix the rendering layer
so that it's just on top of the
background below the RSS feed.
Okay,
this is starting to look like something,
but we obviously need some
realistic environment.
We'll start with our fabulous weatherman.
Set the width to 2 so
that it's full size.
Then we can set it on the background.
Almost realistic, except usually when you
film someone like this,
the background is blurred because
the focus is on the weatherman.
So let's use a Core Image Filter,
the same one we've used earlier,
which is the blur.
Kind of blur that image.
And what you see is
actually where Blur Extend,
it's kind of gonna sample outside
and it's black by default.
So these are the things you
actually fix when you have
the concept pretty much ready.
But for now it's enough.
So you continue, same as earlier,
when we built the RSS Scroller,
you continue iterating a few steps,
getting your ideas right
inside Quartz Composer,
and eventually you end up with the,
shall we call that kind of final result?
Okay, something very realistic.
So here we have our final
Composition that is live,
obviously.
You can see it's the current time here.
And it's nicely organized.
It has been divided into several macros.
Each of the macro is performing one
operation like drawing the title,
drawing the info box here,
the yellow info box, the RSS feed,
the caption here, and everything.
So at that point,
we started with the idea of let's
kind of build a TV channel thing,
and we experimented with Quartz Composer,
getting a prototype of how the
final result could look like.
And it's now time to build
the application around it.
Can we go back to slides, please?
So we start from that point.
We got our Composition,
kind of a monolithic object
that does everything.
Is that really practical to manipulate?
Well, actually not,
because if you want to
have a graphic artist,
for example,
modify just the background or the
scrolling thing at the bottom,
it's easier to work on separate pieces.
So what we're going to do is divide this
Composition into five sub-Compositions,
one for each visual part,
like the background, the title and such.
In our hosting application,
we will need to recompose
those various Compositions.
The way to do that is you use the,
you've seen so far the QC view,
which is one API for Quartz Composer,
and there is another
API called the QC renderer,
which is lower level.
It allows you more control over how the
rendering is done and when it is done.
So here we're going to use
one QC renderer for each of
those sub-Composition files.
The QC renderer is going to
render into an OpenGL context,
so this is fully accelerated.
Then because we're going to call
those five QC renderers in order,
we're actually going to end up inside the
OpenGL context with the same image pretty
much as the one we had at the beginning.
So if we connect that OpenGL context
to an on-screen display,
well, you're pretty much done because
you see on screen the final result.
If your video output of your computer
is connected to some kind of TV system,
then the result is,
you can use the result immediately.
But we can do more than that.
We can actually take the frames
that are inside the OpenGL context
and process them through QuickTime.
Let's have a look at that.
So as I said earlier,
we have on one side the OpenGL context
where the rendering happens,
and this is optimized,
hardware accelerated,
and it runs on the GPU.
When we want to do frame processing,
like compress them and
using QuickTime and such,
this happens on the CPU.
So the first step is to bring back
the frames from the GPU to the CPU.
For that,
we're going to use a component that
I call the OpenGL Frame Reader.
This component takes the OpenGL context,
read the frames inside,
and produces CV pixel buffer.
CV pixel buffers are core video
pixel buffers that are like
simple memory wrappers around
a block of pixels in memory.
It's your usual base
address row bytes thing.
Then we can take those CV pixel
buffers and pass them to the new
QuickTime 7 compression session APIs.
They're going to take the contents of
those buffers and compress them using
whatever codec and quality you want.
So we have a quick time movie.
We can also, if the compression is DV,
actually send those frames
directly on the FireWire DV port.
And then if you have any kind of
DV hardware that has a video input,
I mean that has a DV input,
then the frames are ready
to be used on that hardware.
Let me go back to the demo station,
please.
I'm going to show you now
that we have the idea,
we build a prototype in Quartz Composer,
we have a clear idea how to build the
architecture of the hosting application,
we can look at the final project,
which is right here.
Okay.
So as we said earlier,
we have obviously the part of the
application that's going to take care of
creating the QC renderers and rendering
them in the correct order and such.
So that part is in your
usual app controller class
of the Cocoa application.
Then we have the frame processing part.
There are a few classes here.
The first one is the one we
talked about that takes the
contents inside the OpenGL context,
downloads it,
and outputs core video frames.
It's the frame reader class.
Then we have another class that
is going to take those frames
and compress them using the
QuickTime Compression Session APIs.
So that's the frame compressor class.
This is actually an abstract class in
the way this application is designed.
So what I did is subclassed
it and create two subclasses.
One that takes the resulting
compressed frames and sends
them on the FireWire DV port,
and the other one that simply
appends them to a movie file.
And the last thing we need is two classes
to allow us to build UI dynamically
on the fly given a Composition so
that you can edit the Composition
parameters inside the application.
Let's look at the final result.
So this is our final application,
Quartz Composer TV.
You can see here, let me just get,
we're not really in a nice
environment to do keying,
so what I'm going to do
is use actually a movie.
Okay, left here.
And I configured the Composition that
takes care of the contents to actually
have an input where you can say,
take the live video input or
take just a movie to operate
on for demonstration purposes.
And we can do also some basic keying.
- Get rid of the green and here we go.
And whoops, sorry about that.
And we obviously need to fix kind of the
position and scale and everything so that
your weatherman is perfectly positioned.
And all the parameters here
of the various compositions
are available through that UI,
which was built on the fly using the
classes I described to you earlier.
With that result,
we can output it to a live FireWire
TV stream or to a QuickTime movie.
So I'm going to take the second case as
an example and just render in 320 to 240.
That would be enough.
And then select QuickTime Movie.
Set it on the desktop.
Okay, so we can select H.264 compression,
15 frames per second,
that's enough for demonstration.
And now the rendering that happens inside
Quartz Composer TV is visible on screen.
The frames are grabbed,
downloaded from the video card,
processed through QuickTime,
compressed as H.264,
and eventually written
to disk inside a movie.
So H.264 is a pretty
expensive compression,
so in real time you won't get like 60
frames per second or something like that.
But it's a good
technological demonstration.
Now I can stop the export
and look at the result.
So here I have my movie that
was generated in real time.
I have 15 frames per second, about.
So what we've seen so far,
it's a pretty big example of what
you can do with Quartz Composer.
I tried to design it so that you
really can reuse everything from it.
The sample code is unfortunately
not available in your CDs right now,
but it's going to be available in the
next few days on the usual developer
website and the sample code area.
Can we go back to slides, please?
Things to remember.
It's fairly easy to
prototype in Quartz Composer.
Experiment with ideas,
have some graphical display with it,
get an idea of what you want,
what's the final result you would like.
But at some point, you're gonna have to
switch to implementation,
and you're gonna have to
consider some design choices.
Do you wanna have a very big
composition that you manipulate,
or do you want to explode it like
I did in several subcompositions?
Might be easier.
You also need to figure out where you
put the line between the features done
inside Quartz Composer and the features
done inside your host application.
That's fairly important.
For those of you who
are OpenGL developers,
you might be interested in knowing
that the QC renderer actually
renders in the current viewport.
So that allows you to somehow
render the Composition in a sub
area of your OpenGL context in
case you're interested in that.
And in case you want to do your
own OpenGL drawing on top or
below the QC renderer drawing,
you can definitely do that.
And the QC renderer is saving,
restoring all the OpenGL stacks, stats,
except the very simple ones,
the current ones.
I provide as part of
this sample application,
a class that allows you to build
UI on the fly so that you can
edit the parameters and save them.
So that's pretty useful and you can reuse
that easily into your own applications.
One thing we did not cover today,
but that is definitely worth having a
look at is the Cocoa binding features.
Quartz Composer is completely
compatible with Cocoa bindings.
The way it works is through
a QC view and a QC patch
controller in Interface Builder.
You will find into the Quartz
Composer programming guide,
a tutorial on how to use Cocoa bindings.
And in simple cases that
wouldn't have worked in a kind
of very complex application,
like, I mean, very complex,
fairly complex application like this,
but in a simple case, you can do,
you can build UI even faster directly in
Interface Builder and have the UI control
directly the composition parameters.
More information about Quartz
Composer you will find on the usual
developer.apple.com/wwdc site.
All the pointers to the documentations,
new sample code that
was released these days,
and other resources.
We have a few sessions that
are related to Quartz Composer.
The first one being the
Quartz Composer Lab,
when you can come and ask questions
about Quartz Composer to developers.
It's actually following this session.
It's today at 3:30.
And then we have other labs
where you will be able to ask
Quartz Composer content as well,
like the OpenGL and Quartz
Composer Lab on Friday morning.
Who to contact when it comes to
questions about Quartz Composer?
The best contact is Travis,
who is our graphics
and imaging evangelist.
You can also contact me directly,
but there is actually a mailing list,
which is a much better way to ask
questions about Quartz Composer.
Contact me directly or contact Travis.
You will find this mailing
list on list.apple.com.
It's called the Quartz Composer Dev List.